it's one of the worst case scenarios you
can experience as a speaker you're
delivering a speech and then all of a
sudden something unavoidable happens
there's a massive distraction all of
your audience turns their heads to look
at what is going on maybe somebody drops
and breaks a glass
something happens it's chaos
and you have to pick up the pieces and
continue with your speech this is an
incredibly difficult situation but i am
hoping that through this video i equip
you with the knowledge and the skills so
that if this happens to you on the next
speech that you give you are going to be
able to handle it like a professional
and totally brush that distraction aside
hey everyone my name is wade patterson i
produce video content about being an
impactful communicator now a lot of that
has to do with toastmasters a lot of
that has to do with public speaking some
of it has to do with other forms of
communication even things like
podcasting social media video content
but if this is something that sounds to
you like you would like to improve upon
you'd like to become a better
communicator a more impactful
communicator then please subscribe to my
channel i would really appreciate it and
that will be my goal to continue to put
out videos like these to make you a
stronger communicator a situation
similar to the one that i described at
the very beginning of this video
occurred when i was speaking but i was a
much more amateur speaker than the point
i've grown to now it was early on i had
just joined a toastmasters club it was
one of my first speeches i began to
deliver it and there was a massive
distraction that caught pretty much the
attention of everyone in the room and i
froze i got completely derailed and i
wasn't able to reel back in the speech
it ended up being a disaster or at least
i felt like it was a disaster and it was
at that moment i got a really good piece
of advice from a fellow toastmaster and
he told me when a distraction happens
you have two options you can ignore it
or you can acknowledge it so let's break
these two ideas down because both are
useful and it will depend on what the
distraction is for which one you
implement so starting with ignoring the
distraction usually this is the right
recipe or ingredient to use when the
distraction is somewhat minor maybe you
notice somebody walks in the room and
slams the door and a few people turn
their heads
and
it catches people's attention
but
it's not enough that you want to maybe
call out the person who is walking into
the room maybe they're late for the
meeting something along those lines you
may not want to draw attention to them
instead you continue going you act as if
that occurrence didn't happen you keep
delivering your speech and if people are
chattering or they're talking about
whatever that minor distraction was
you compensate by raising your voice by
using vocal variety recapturing the
attention do something like clap your
hands and regain the audience's
attention toward you by using this in
the right way again you don't want to
just start clapping at the audience but
if it has to do with your story and you
can incorporate that in and raise that
voice that is going to recapture the
audience's attention on your speech and
people will very quickly forget that
that minor distraction such as a door
slam or somebody dropping something
they won't even realize that happened
because you continued going confidently
and completely ignored whatever else had
happened other times you want to
acknowledge it acknowledge whatever the
distraction was and usually you're going
to do this if the distraction or the
noise is something so significant i mean
if somebody's walking to their chair and
they completely fall down or you know
something over the top like that
somebody a waiter drops a full
tray of food that is something that is a
bit more unavoidable you always want to
make sure that you're not
throwing somebody under the bus and and
being mean spirited or anything like
that poking fun of somebody
but by incorporating whatever happened
somehow tying that into your speech
and drawing attention and the best ways
i've seen speakers do this is almost
using what happened as a way to
reinforce whatever their speech is about
and it takes a level of creativity to do
this but by acknowledging it up front
the audience will appreciate because
that is a great skill to have to be able
to turn on a dime and incorporate
something that is going on into your
speech
that is a
impressive elite public speaking skill
to have and a way that you can continue
to keep the audience's attention and you
can continue through your speech so the
next time you're speaking and a
distraction happens i want you to
remember those two options ignore it or
acknowledge it and go with one depending
on what the situation is and stick to it
i realized that acknowledging the
distraction
is something that is more advanced it
might be a little bit trickier to do so
so you can always go back on the ignore
it piece and stay confident and power
through and deliver your speech with
conviction and you will still pretty
much regardless of what the distraction
is you will maintain the audience's
attention but the greater the
distraction is something more
significant if you can acknowledge it if
you can call it out in a way that isn't
making fun of anyone but perhaps it's
adding a bit of humor it's tying it to
whatever you're speaking about by doing
so you are going to probably do an even
better job on your speech than had there
been no distraction at all it's an elite
skill to have but if you can do it all
the power to you i hope this video on
avoiding distractions when public
speaking was beneficial to you if it was
leave me a comment let me know and
consider subscribing to my channel
i am laser focused on providing really
great video content to help you become a
better communicator and by subscribing i
think you'll get a lot of value out of
these videos thanks so much and i'll
catch you on the next one